docs(proxy): Add initial proxy documentation (#388)
clerkinc/clerk-docs: docs/advanced-usage/using-proxies.mdx

---
title: Using Proxies
description: Learn how to proxy the Clerk Frontend API through your domain.
---

# Proxying the Clerk Frontend API

> Clerk supports two methods for configuring the Clerk Frontend API: CNAME and Proxy. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Clerk supports two configuration methods for connecting to the Clerk Frontend API: CNAME and Proxy. 
```
Please feel free to use any copy you see fit, I just thought that we're not actually configuring FAPI, we're just configuring how we'll connect to it. :/

Reviewer: Maybe add a link to the DNS set up guide? (if there is one...) :laughing:

> CNAME is the simplest way to configure the Frontend API but, if you're unable to use the CNAME approach, or would like more control over your integration with Clerk, you can use a proxy.

Reviewer: :upside_down_face:  "Setting up CNAME records and using DNS is the simplest way"???

Maybe split the sentences into shorter ones? Sorry if I'm being nit-picky...

When using a proxy, all requests to the Frontend API will be made through your domain. This allows you to use your own SSL certificate, and gives you more control over how you configure your application.

## How to use Proxying

<Steps>
### Create your application and install Clerk

To get started, you need to create an Application from the [Clerk Dashboard](https://dashboard.clerk.com/). Once you create an instance via the Clerk Dashboard, you will be prompted to choose a domain. For the purposes of this guide, the domain will be `app.dev`.

<Callout type="warning">Proxying is a replacement for the CNAME approach. As such, if you're using a proxy, you cannot use CNAME.</Callout>

### Configure your proxy server

> For this example, we've chosen `/__clerk` as the path for our proxy. You can choose any path you'd like, but it must be unique and not conflict with any other routes in your application.

Reviewer: :upside_down_face: Let's also mention that it must match your domain's name.

```conf filename="nginx.conf"
http {
  # ...
  server {
    # ...
    location /__clerk/ {
      rewrite ^/__clerk/(.*)$ /$1 break;
      proxy_pass https://frontend-api.clerk.dev;
      proxy_set_header Clerk-Proxy-Url https://app.dev/__clerk;
      proxy_set_header Clerk-Secret-Key sk_live_***;
      proxy_redirect off;
    }
  }
}
```

### Enable Proxying

When enabling proxying, you must provide the path of your proxy relative to the instance's domain. This URL must be valid and resolve correctly according to the required attributes listed above.

<Tabs items={['Dashboard', 'Backend API']}>
  <Tab>
    1. Go to [your Clerk dashboard](https://dashboard.clerk.com/) and navigate to the **Domains** page.
    2. Navigate to the **Frontend API** section.
    3. Click on **Advanced**.
    4. Enter your proxy URL in the **Proxy URL** field.
      - The proxy URL must be a valid URL and resolve correctly.
  </Tab>

  <Tab>
    The request below will update the domain to use the proxy URL `https://app.dev/__clerk`. In doing so, it will trigger checks to validate the proxy URL.

    ```bash

>     curl -X POST https://api.clerk.dev/v1/domains/{{DOMAIN ID}} \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    curl -X PATCH https://api.clerk.dev/v1/domains/{{DOMAIN ID}} \
```

---
title: Using Proxies
description: Learn how to proxy the Clerk Frontend API through your domain.
---

# Proxying the Clerk Frontend API

> Clerk supports two configuration methods for connecting to the Clerk Frontend API: CNAME and Proxy

Reviewer 2: 👍

<Callout type="warning">Proxying is a replacement for the CNAME approach. As such, if you're using a proxy, you cannot use CNAME.</Callout>

### Configure your proxy server

For this example, we've chosen `/__clerk` as the path for our proxy. Your proxy server must be on the same domain as your application. 

You can choose any path you'd like, but it must be unique and not conflict with any other routes in your application.

#### Requirements

Requests to `https://app.dev/__clerk/*` must be forwarded to `https://frontend-api.clerk.dev/*` with the body and all headers intact.

##### Three additional headers must be set:

  - `Clerk-Proxy-Url`: Needs to have the full proxy URL.
  - `Clerk-Secret-Key`: The secret key for your Clerk instance.
  - `X-Forwarded-For`: The IP address of the original client making the request.

#### Example Configuration

<Tabs items={['Nginx', 'Cloudflare Workers']}>
  <Tab>
    ```conf filename="nginx.conf"
    http {
      # ...
      server {
        # ...
        location /__clerk/ {
          rewrite ^/__clerk/(.*)$ /$1 break;
          proxy_pass https://frontend-api.clerk.dev;
          proxy_set_header Clerk-Proxy-Url https://app.dev/__clerk;

>           proxy_set_header Clerk-Secret-Key sk_live_***;

Reviewer 3: we are missing `proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-For $remote_addr;` here.

Reviewer: Great catch! Fixed in https://github.com/clerkinc/clerk-docs/pull/388/commits/edd79b2ea3a0630c64a72b2d1d1d225f942bd74e

---
title: Using Proxies
description: Learn how to proxy the Clerk Frontend API through your domain.
---

# Proxying the Clerk Frontend API

Clerk supports two configuration methods for connecting to the Clerk Frontend API: CNAME and Proxy.

> [Setting up CNAME records and using DNS is the simplest way](/docs/deployments/overview#dns-records). However, if you're unable to use this approach, or would like more control over your integration with Clerk, you can use a proxy.

Reviewer 2: 👍

When using a proxy, all requests to the Frontend API will be made through your domain. This allows you to use your own SSL certificate, and gives you more control over how you configure your application.

## How to use Proxying

<Steps>
### Create your application and install Clerk

> To get started, you need to create an Application from the [Clerk Dashboard](https://dashboard.clerk.com/). Once you create an instance via the Clerk Dashboard, you will be prompted to choose a domain. For the purposes of this guide, the domain will be `app.dev`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
To get started, you need to create an Application from the [Clerk Dashboard](https://dashboard.clerk.com/). Once you create an instance via the Clerk Dashboard, you will be prompted to choose a domain. For the purposes of this guide, the domain will be `app.dev`.

<Callout type="info">
  For more information on creating a Clerk application, check out our [Set up your application guide](/docs/quickstarts/setup-clerk).
</Callout
```

Reviewer 2: Nice 👍

### Configure your proxy server

> For this example, we've chosen `/__clerk` as the path for our proxy. Your proxy server must be on the same domain as your application.

Reviewer 2: 👍

            const url = req.url.replace(env.CLERK_PROXY_URL, env.CLERK_FAPI)
            const proxyReq = new Request(req, {
              redirect: 'manual',
            });

            proxyReq.headers.set('Clerk-Proxy-Url', env.CLERK_PROXY_URL);
            proxyReq.headers.set('Clerk-Secret-Key', env.CLERK_SECRET_KEY);
            proxyReq.headers.set('X-Forwarded-For', req.headers.get('CF-Connecting-IP') || '');

            return fetch(url, proxyReq);
          },
        };
      ```

      ```toml filename="wrangler.toml"
        name = "cloudflare-proxy"
        main = "src/index.ts"
        compatibility_date = "2023-10-02"

        [vars]
        CLERK_FAPI="https://frontend-api.clerk.dev"
      ```

      ```env filename=".dev.vars"
        # Do not commit this file to source control
        CLERK_PROXY_URL="https://app.dev/__clerk"
        CLERK_SECRET_KEY="sk_live_xxxxx"
      ```

      ```ts filename="worker-configuration.d.ts"
        interface Env {
          CLERK_FAPI: string;
          CLERK_PROXY_URL: string;
          CLERK_SECRET_KEY: string;
        }
      ```
    </CodeBlockTabs>
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

> <Callout type="info">Every proxy configuration will be different and we're here to help. Please reach out if there's a specific use-case you're looking to solve.</Callout>

Reviewer 2: Good call.

### Enable Proxying

> In order to enable proxying, you need to set a proxy URL for your Clerk instance's domain.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In order to enable proxying, you need to set a proxy URL for your Clerk instance's domain. This can be done through the Clerk Dashboard or through the Backend API.
```

<Callout type="info">
  To avoid downtime, your proxy must be set up according to the above configuration before it can be enabled for your instance.
  Make sure your proxy forwards requests to the Clerk Frontend API correctly and includes the required headers.
</Callout>

<Tabs items={['Dashboard', 'Backend API']}>
  <Tab>

>     1. Go to [your Clerk dashboard](https://dashboard.clerk.com/) and navigate to the **Domains** page.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    1. Navigate to the [Domains](https://dashboard.clerk.com/last-active?path=domains) page in the Clerk Dashboard.
```

Reviewer 2: 👍

    2. Navigate to the **Frontend API** section.
    3. Click on **Advanced**.
    4. Enter your proxy URL in the **Proxy URL** field. The proxy URL must be a valid URL and resolve correctly.
  </Tab>

  <Tab>
    The request below will update the domain to use the proxy URL `https://app.dev/__clerk`. In doing so, it will trigger checks to validate the proxy URL.

    ```bash
    curl -X PATCH https://api.clerk.dev/v1/domains/{{DOMAIN ID}} \
        -H "Authorization: Bearer {{SECRET KEY}}" \
        -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
        -d '{"proxy_url": "https://app.dev/__clerk"}}'
    ```
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

> ### Configure your proxy setup
> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### Configure your proxy setup

You can configure your proxy setup via environment variables or via properties.
```

Reviewer 2: 👍
